
[Dr. Robert B. Noland](https://bloustein.rutgers.edu/people/noland/) is Associate Dean of Faculty and Distinguished Professor at the Edward J. Bloustein School of Planning and Public Policy. He also serves as the Director of the Alan M. Voorhees Transportation Center. He received his PhD at the University of Pennsylvania in Energy Management and Environmental Policy. Prior to joining Rutgers University he was Reader in Transport and Environmental Policy at Imperial College London, a Policy Analyst at the US Environmental Protection Agency and also conducted post-doctoral research in the Economics Department at the University of California at Irvine. 

The focus of Dr. Noland’s research is the impacts of transportation planning and policy on both economic and environmental outcomes. Work on economic effects has included examining behavioral reactions to changes in reliability, associations with the built environment, and trip chaining behavior. Environmental work includes impacts on safety, climate, health, and other factors associated with overall quality of life. Active research areas include evaluation of traffic safety data and how safety modeling is used in economic assessment and planning of infrastructure; analysis of the costs and benefits of road diet conversions; analysis of walking behavior and links to other travel behavior and the built environment; analysis of climate change impacts on accessibility; and, evaluation of bike-sharing systems. Dr. Noland’s research has been cited throughout the world in debates over transport infrastructure planning and environmental assessment of new infrastructure. Dr. Noland is currently the co-Editor-in-Chief of Transportation Research part D (Transport and Environment) and Associate Editor of the International Journal of Sustainable Transportation, and was formerly the Chair of the Transportation Research Board Special Task Force on Climate Change and Energy.



